## Appointment Booking App

This Appointment Booking App is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

Firstly please create an environment file `.env.local` which will store the following values

```
FIREBASE_API_KEY=
FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=
FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=
FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=
FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=
FIREBASE_APP_ID=
EMAIL_USERNAME=
EMAIL_PASSWORD=
EMAIL_APP_PASSWORD=
```

For the firebase part
- Using the free version, please create a new project. 
- Create firebase firestore.
- On the project settings, under App card, create a new web app project.
- After that, under your new web app details, copy the firebase configuration object and put the value to the above.

For the email part, you need to get the app password, which is a 16 characters length password that can be generated by your mail provider
- In gmail, go to the 2 steps verification page and scroll to the bottom. If you have not set your app password yet, then click on the app password. 
- Name your app password, and Google will generate app password for you. Put the value to the app password above. 

After setting up the environment file above, run npm install to download all the packages. 

```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

Lastly, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## Requirements

- To build an app comprises of the following 
    - Frontend that can do the following
        - Take new appointment booking
        - Search submitted appointment booking
    - Backend that can do the following
        - Take new appointment submission and store it in the database
        - Fetch appointment from database based on passed query
        - Take updated appointment and store it in the database
        - Delete existing appointment in the database.
        - Send email on successful new appointment submission or successful updated appointment submission.  


## Business Rules

- The app will follow certain business rules
    - Business operation is only from 9am until 6pm. Appointment can only be made within the business operation hours. 
    - Business only goes from Monday to Friday.
    - Appointment need to be made at least 2 days in advance.
    - Appointment can only be set in advance for up to 3 weeks.  


## Assumptions

The following are the assumptions made when developing the app
- App does not require sign in. Anyone can make a booking without needing to login. Searching for own booking can be done using email or mobile number. 
- Each appointment takes 30 minutes time. Therefore each time slot set in the app will be 30 minutes. Actual user may have longer process during the appointment time but this app assumes that user will spend 30 minutes to complete their appointment on that day. 
- Appointment only requires minimum amount of data needed. For this app, aside from appointment date and time, user specific information needed are name, mobile number and email. 
- User is using real and actual name when creating appointment booking.
- User is using real and actual mobile number when creating appointment booking. 
- User is using real and actual email when creating appointment booking. 
- Despite this project allowing same user to create multiple appointments into the system, but let us assume here that the user is a customer with modest behaviour, and will not spam the system with multiple unnecessary bookings. While it may sound like a problem, actual user usually may just create one appointment booking using their preferred email and mobile number and be done with it. 
- Security wise, let us assume that this project is being hosted on a secured cloud platform, with secure practices being applied to it properly (rate limit, connectivity, data compliance and etc..)
- Actual mail service provider is being used instead of using nodemailer (which is what being used in the project for emulating email sending). 
- 


